docs/Troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

This guide helps you diagnose and resolve common issues when using Forge EC.

## Quick Diagnostics

### Check Your Setup

```bash
# Verify Rust version
rustc --version  # Should be 1.71.0 or later

# Check Cargo version
cargo --version

# Verify project builds
cargo check --workspace --all-features

# Run basic tests
cargo test --workspace --lib
```

### Environment Information

```bash
# System information
uname -a

# Rust toolchain info
rustup show

# Cargo tree (dependency issues)
cargo tree
```

## Common Issues

### 1. Build Failures

#### Issue: Compilation Errors

**Symptoms**:
```
error[E0432]: unresolved import `forge_ec_core::Curve`
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Check Dependencies**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = "0.1.0"
forge-ec-curves = "0.1.0"
# Add other required crates
```

2. **Update Rust Version**:
```bash
rustup update stable
rustc --version  # Should be 1.71.0+
```

3. **Clean and Rebuild**:
```bash
cargo clean
cargo build --workspace --all-features
```

#### Issue: Feature Flag Conflicts

**Symptoms**:
```
error: feature `std` is required but not enabled
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Enable Required Features**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["std"] }
```

2. **No-Std Configuration**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = { version = "0.1.0", default-features = false, features = ["alloc"] }
```

#### Issue: Missing External Dependencies

**Symptoms**:
```
error: could not find `subtle` in the list of imported crates
```

**Solutions**:

Add missing dependencies:
```toml
[dependencies]
subtle = "2.6.0"
zeroize = "1.6.0"
rand_core = "0.6.4"
```

### 2. Runtime Errors

#### Issue: Invalid Point Errors

**Symptoms**:
```rust
// Point creation fails
let point = Secp256k1::PointAffine::from_bytes(&bytes); // Returns None
```

**Diagnosis**:
```rust
// Check if bytes represent a valid point
if point.is_none() {
    println!("Invalid point data");
    // Check point format and coordinates
}
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Validate Input Data**:
```rust
// Ensure point is on curve
let point = match Secp256k1::PointAffine::from_bytes(&bytes) {
    Some(p) if bool::from(p.is_on_curve()) => p,
    _ => return Err(Error::InvalidPoint),
};
```

2. **Use Proper Encoding**:
```rust
// For compressed points (33 bytes)
let compressed = PointEncoding::encode_compressed(&point);
let decoded = PointEncoding::decode_compressed(&compressed)?;

// For uncompressed points (65 bytes)
let uncompressed = point.to_bytes();
let decoded = Secp256k1::PointAffine::from_bytes(&uncompressed)?;
```

#### Issue: Scalar Out of Range

**Symptoms**:
```rust
// Scalar creation fails
let scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes(&bytes); // Returns None
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Reduced Form**:
```rust
// Automatically reduces modulo curve order
let scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes_reduced(&bytes);
```

2. **Validate Range**:
```rust
// Check if bytes represent valid scalar
if scalar.is_none() {
    println!("Scalar value too large for curve order");
}
```

#### Issue: Signature Verification Failures

**Symptoms**:
```rust
let valid = Ecdsa::<Secp256k1, Sha256>::verify(&pubkey, message, &signature);
assert!(valid); // Fails
```

**Diagnosis Steps**:

1. **Check Key Pair Consistency**:
```rust
// Verify public key matches private key
let derived_pubkey = Secp256k1::multiply(&Secp256k1::generator(), &private_key);
let derived_affine = Secp256k1::to_affine(&derived_pubkey);
assert_eq!(public_key, derived_affine);
```

2. **Verify Message Integrity**:
```rust
// Ensure message hasn't changed
let original_hash = Sha256::digest(original_message);
let current_hash = Sha256::digest(current_message);
assert_eq!(original_hash, current_hash);
```

3. **Check Signature Format**:
```rust
// Ensure signature components are valid
assert!(!signature.r.is_zero());
assert!(!signature.s.is_zero());
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Deterministic Signing**:
```rust
// RFC 6979 ensures consistent signatures
let signature = Ecdsa::<Secp256k1, Sha256>::sign(&private_key, message);
```

2. **Normalize Signature**:
```rust
// Ensure signature is in canonical form
let normalized_sig = signature.normalize(); // If available
```

### 3. Performance Issues

#### Issue: Slow Cryptographic Operations

**Symptoms**:
- Key generation takes too long
- Signature operations are slow
- Point multiplication is inefficient

**Solutions**:

1. **Enable Optimizations**:
```toml
[profile.release]
opt-level = 3
lto = "thin"
codegen-units = 1
```

2. **Use SIMD Features**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-curves = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["simd"] }
```

3. **Batch Operations**:
```rust
// Use batch verification when possible
let valid = Schnorr::<Secp256k1>::batch_verify(&pubkeys, &messages, &signatures);
```

#### Issue: Memory Usage

**Symptoms**:
- High memory consumption
- Memory leaks in long-running applications

**Solutions**:

1. **Explicit Cleanup**:
```rust
use zeroize::Zeroize;

let mut private_key = generate_private_key();
// Use private key...
private_key.zeroize(); // Explicit cleanup
```

2. **Avoid Heap Allocations**:
```rust
// Use stack-allocated types
let scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes(&bytes)?;
// Instead of Vec<u8> for sensitive data
```

### 4. Integration Issues

#### Issue: Interoperability with Other Libraries

**Symptoms**:
- Keys generated by Forge EC don't work with other libraries
- Signatures created elsewhere fail verification

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Standard Formats**:
```rust
// DER encoding for interoperability
let private_key_der = EcPrivateKey::new(
    &private_key.to_bytes(),
    Some(secp256k1_oid),
    Some(&public_key.to_bytes())
).to_der()?;
```

2. **Verify Curve Parameters**:
```rust
// Ensure same curve parameters
const SECP256K1_P: &str = "FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFEFFFFFC2F";
const SECP256K1_N: &str = "FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFEBAAEDCE6AF48A03BBFD25E8CD0364141";
```

#### Issue: No-Std Environment Problems

**Symptoms**:
```
error: `std::vec::Vec` is not available in `no_std`
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Proper Feature Configuration**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = { version = "0.1.0", default-features = false, features = ["alloc"] }
```

2. **Use Core Types**:
```rust
#![no_std]
extern crate alloc;
use alloc::vec::Vec;
use core::fmt::Debug;
```

### 5. Test Failures

#### Issue: Tests Hanging

**Current Status**: Known issue being addressed

**Symptoms**:
- Tests run indefinitely
- Specific hash-to-curve tests timeout

**Workarounds**:

1. **Run Tests with Timeout**:
```bash
timeout 60 cargo test
```

2. **Skip Problematic Tests**:
```bash
cargo test --workspace --lib  # Skip integration tests
```

3. **Run Single-Threaded**:
```bash
RUST_TEST_THREADS=1 cargo test
```

#### Issue: Intermittent Test Failures

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Deterministic Inputs**:
```rust
// Instead of random values in tests
let test_scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes(&[1u8; 32]).unwrap();
```

2. **Increase Test Iterations**:
```bash
# Run tests multiple times
for i in {1..10}; do cargo test || break; done
```

## Debugging Tools

### Logging

```rust
// Enable debug logging
env_logger::init();
log::debug!("Debug information: {:?}", value);

// Or use println! for simple debugging
println!("Value: {:?}", value);
```

### Memory Debugging

```bash
# Use Miri for memory safety
cargo +nightly miri test

# Use Valgrind (Linux)
valgrind --tool=memcheck cargo test
```

### Performance Profiling

```bash
# Install profiling tools
cargo install cargo-profdata
cargo install flamegraph

# Generate flame graph
cargo flamegraph --bin your_binary

# Use perf (Linux)
perf record cargo test
perf report
```

## Getting Help

### Before Asking for Help

1. **Search Existing Issues**: Check [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tanm-sys/forge-ec/issues)
2. **Review Documentation**: Read relevant sections in this wiki
3. **Minimal Reproduction**: Create a minimal example that reproduces the issue
4. **Environment Details**: Include Rust version, OS, and dependency versions

### Reporting Issues

When reporting issues, include:

```
**Environment**:
- Rust version: `rustc --version`
- OS: [Windows/Linux/macOS]
- Forge EC version: [version]

**Expected Behavior**:
[What you expected to happen]

**Actual Behavior**:
[What actually happened]

**Minimal Reproduction**:
```rust
// Minimal code that reproduces the issue
```

**Error Output**:
```
[Full error message and stack trace]
```
```

### Community Resources

- **GitHub Discussions**: For questions and general discussion
- **Issues**: For bug reports and feature requests
- **Contributing Guide**: [Contributing Guidelines](Contributing-Guidelines.md)

## Known Issues and Workarounds

### Current Known Issues

1. **ECDSA Verification**: Some verification tests temporarily disabled
   - **Workaround**: Use EdDSA or Schnorr for critical applications
   - **Status**: Fix in progress

2. **Hash-to-Curve Tests**: Point validation issues
   - **Workaround**: Avoid hash-to-curve operations in production
   - **Status**: RFC 9380 compliance improvements underway

3. **Test Hanging**: Some tests may hang indefinitely
   - **Workaround**: Use timeout when running tests
   - **Status**: Root cause investigation ongoing

### Planned Fixes

- ECDSA verification logic debugging
- Hash-to-curve point validation improvements
- Test infrastructure reliability enhancements
- Documentation example updates

## Performance Optimization

### Optimization Checklist

- [ ] Enable release mode: `cargo build --release`
- [ ] Use appropriate feature flags
- [ ] Enable SIMD if supported: `features = ["simd"]`
- [ ] Use batch operations when available
- [ ] Profile critical code paths
- [ ] Consider parallel processing: `features = ["parallel"]`

### Benchmarking

```bash
# Run benchmarks
cargo bench --workspace

# Compare performance
cargo bench -- --save-baseline before
# Make changes
cargo bench -- --baseline before
```

## Security Considerations

### Security Checklist

- [ ] Use secure random number generation
- [ ] Validate all inputs
- [ ] Clear sensitive data after use
- [ ] Use constant-time operations
- [ ] Follow RFC specifications
- [ ] Test with known vectors

### Security Issues

**Report security vulnerabilities privately** to avoid public disclosure before fixes are available.

Contact: Create a private GitHub issue or email (when available).

## Conclusion

Most issues with Forge EC can be resolved by:

1. Ensuring proper dependencies and feature flags
2. Using the correct API patterns
3. Validating inputs appropriately
4. Following security best practices

If you encounter issues not covered here, please contribute to this troubleshooting guide by submitting improvements or reporting new issues.

Commit message:

refactor: mark library as experimental with security warnings
- Update documentation across all files to warn against production use due to known vulnerabilities
- Add critical security notices in README, API docs, and troubleshooting guides
- Move examples to separate forge-ec-examples crate for better organization
- Implement bug fixes and improvements in P-256 and secp256k1 curve implementations
- Update Cargo.toml files to reflect new structure and dependencies

BREAKING CHANGE: Library now explicitly marked as experimental and unsuitable for production use

docs/Troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

**🚨 CRITICAL SECURITY WARNING: This library contains known security vulnerabilities. Troubleshooting is NOT recommended. Replace this library with audited alternatives instead.**

This guide provides information about known issues in Forge EC. **Due to critical security flaws, this library should not be used in any production system.**

## Quick Diagnostics

### Check Your Setup

```bash
# Verify Rust version
rustc --version  # Should be 1.71.0 or later

# Check Cargo version
cargo --version

# Verify project builds
cargo check --workspace --all-features

# Run basic tests
cargo test --workspace --lib
```

### Environment Information

```bash
# System information
uname -a

# Rust toolchain info
rustup show

# Cargo tree (dependency issues)
cargo tree
```

## Common Issues

### 1. Build Failures

#### Issue: Compilation Errors

**Symptoms**:
```
error[E0432]: unresolved import `forge_ec_core::Curve`
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Check Dependencies**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = "0.1.0"
forge-ec-curves = "0.1.0"
# Add other required crates
```

2. **Update Rust Version**:
```bash
rustup update stable
rustc --version  # Should be 1.71.0+
```

3. **Clean and Rebuild**:
```bash
cargo clean
cargo build --workspace --all-features
```

#### Issue: Feature Flag Conflicts

**Symptoms**:
```
error: feature `std` is required but not enabled
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Enable Required Features**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["std"] }
```

2. **No-Std Configuration**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = { version = "0.1.0", default-features = false, features = ["alloc"] }
```

#### Issue: Missing External Dependencies

**Symptoms**:
```
error: could not find `subtle` in the list of imported crates
```

**Solutions**:

Add missing dependencies:
```toml
[dependencies]
subtle = "2.6.0"
zeroize = "1.6.0"
rand_core = "0.6.4"
```

### 2. Runtime Errors

#### Issue: Invalid Point Errors

**Symptoms**:
```rust
// Point creation fails
let point = Secp256k1::PointAffine::from_bytes(&bytes); // Returns None
```

**Diagnosis**:
```rust
// Check if bytes represent a valid point
if point.is_none() {
    println!("Invalid point data");
    // Check point format and coordinates
}
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Validate Input Data**:
```rust
// Ensure point is on curve
let point = match Secp256k1::PointAffine::from_bytes(&bytes) {
    Some(p) if bool::from(p.is_on_curve()) => p,
    _ => return Err(Error::InvalidPoint),
};
```

2. **Use Proper Encoding**:
```rust
// For compressed points (33 bytes)
let compressed = PointEncoding::encode_compressed(&point);
let decoded = PointEncoding::decode_compressed(&compressed)?;

// For uncompressed points (65 bytes)
let uncompressed = point.to_bytes();
let decoded = Secp256k1::PointAffine::from_bytes(&uncompressed)?;
```

#### Issue: Scalar Out of Range

**Symptoms**:
```rust
// Scalar creation fails
let scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes(&bytes); // Returns None
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Reduced Form**:
```rust
// Automatically reduces modulo curve order
let scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes_reduced(&bytes);
```

2. **Validate Range**:
```rust
// Check if bytes represent valid scalar
if scalar.is_none() {
    println!("Scalar value too large for curve order");
}
```

#### Issue: Signature Verification Failures

**Symptoms**:
```rust
let valid = Ecdsa::<Secp256k1, Sha256>::verify(&pubkey, message, &signature);
assert!(valid); // Fails
```

**Diagnosis Steps**:

1. **Check Key Pair Consistency**:
```rust
// Verify public key matches private key
let derived_pubkey = Secp256k1::multiply(&Secp256k1::generator(), &private_key);
let derived_affine = Secp256k1::to_affine(&derived_pubkey);
assert_eq!(public_key, derived_affine);
```

2. **Verify Message Integrity**:
```rust
// Ensure message hasn't changed
let original_hash = Sha256::digest(original_message);
let current_hash = Sha256::digest(current_message);
assert_eq!(original_hash, current_hash);
```

3. **Check Signature Format**:
```rust
// Ensure signature components are valid
assert!(!signature.r.is_zero());
assert!(!signature.s.is_zero());
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Deterministic Signing**:
```rust
// RFC 6979 ensures consistent signatures
let signature = Ecdsa::<Secp256k1, Sha256>::sign(&private_key, message);
```

2. **Normalize Signature**:
```rust
// Ensure signature is in canonical form
let normalized_sig = signature.normalize(); // If available
```

### 3. Performance Issues

#### Issue: Slow Cryptographic Operations

**Symptoms**:
- Key generation takes too long
- Signature operations are slow
- Point multiplication is inefficient

**Solutions**:

1. **Enable Optimizations**:
```toml
[profile.release]
opt-level = 3
lto = "thin"
codegen-units = 1
```

2. **Use SIMD Features**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-curves = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["simd"] }
```

3. **Batch Operations**:
```rust
// Use batch verification when possible
let valid = Schnorr::<Secp256k1>::batch_verify(&pubkeys, &messages, &signatures);
```

#### Issue: Memory Usage

**Symptoms**:
- High memory consumption
- Memory leaks in long-running applications

**Solutions**:

1. **Explicit Cleanup**:
```rust
use zeroize::Zeroize;

let mut private_key = generate_private_key();
// Use private key...
private_key.zeroize(); // Explicit cleanup
```

2. **Avoid Heap Allocations**:
```rust
// Use stack-allocated types
let scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes(&bytes)?;
// Instead of Vec<u8> for sensitive data
```

### 4. Integration Issues

#### Issue: Interoperability with Other Libraries

**Symptoms**:
- Keys generated by Forge EC don't work with other libraries
- Signatures created elsewhere fail verification

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Standard Formats**:
```rust
// DER encoding for interoperability
let private_key_der = EcPrivateKey::new(
    &private_key.to_bytes(),
    Some(secp256k1_oid),
    Some(&public_key.to_bytes())
).to_der()?;
```

2. **Verify Curve Parameters**:
```rust
// Ensure same curve parameters
const SECP256K1_P: &str = "FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFEFFFFFC2F";
const SECP256K1_N: &str = "FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFEBAAEDCE6AF48A03BBFD25E8CD0364141";
```

#### Issue: No-Std Environment Problems

**Symptoms**:
```
error: `std::vec::Vec` is not available in `no_std`
```

**Solutions**:

1. **Proper Feature Configuration**:
```toml
[dependencies]
forge-ec-core = { version = "0.1.0", default-features = false, features = ["alloc"] }
```

2. **Use Core Types**:
```rust
#![no_std]
extern crate alloc;
use alloc::vec::Vec;
use core::fmt::Debug;
```

### 5. Test Failures

#### Issue: Tests Hanging

**Current Status**: Known issue being addressed

**Symptoms**:
- Tests run indefinitely
- Specific hash-to-curve tests timeout

**Workarounds**:

1. **Run Tests with Timeout**:
```bash
timeout 60 cargo test
```

2. **Skip Problematic Tests**:
```bash
cargo test --workspace --lib  # Skip integration tests
```

3. **Run Single-Threaded**:
```bash
RUST_TEST_THREADS=1 cargo test
```

#### Issue: Intermittent Test Failures

**Solutions**:

1. **Use Deterministic Inputs**:
```rust
// Instead of random values in tests
let test_scalar = Secp256k1::Scalar::from_bytes(&[1u8; 32]).unwrap();
```

2. **Increase Test Iterations**:
```bash
# Run tests multiple times
for i in {1..10}; do cargo test || break; done
```

## Debugging Tools

### Logging

```rust
// Enable debug logging
env_logger::init();
log::debug!("Debug information: {:?}", value);

// Or use println! for simple debugging
println!("Value: {:?}", value);
```

### Memory Debugging

```bash
# Use Miri for memory safety
cargo +nightly miri test

# Use Valgrind (Linux)
valgrind --tool=memcheck cargo test
```

### Performance Profiling

```bash
# Install profiling tools
cargo install cargo-profdata
cargo install flamegraph

# Generate flame graph
cargo flamegraph --bin your_binary

# Use perf (Linux)
perf record cargo test
perf report
```

## Getting Help

### Before Asking for Help

1. **Search Existing Issues**: Check [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tanm-sys/forge-ec/issues)
2. **Review Documentation**: Read relevant sections in this wiki
3. **Minimal Reproduction**: Create a minimal example that reproduces the issue
4. **Environment Details**: Include Rust version, OS, and dependency versions

### Reporting Issues

When reporting issues, include:

```
**Environment**:
- Rust version: `rustc --version`
- OS: [Windows/Linux/macOS]
- Forge EC version: [version]

**Expected Behavior**:
[What you expected to happen]

**Actual Behavior**:
[What actually happened]

**Minimal Reproduction**:
```rust
// Minimal code that reproduces the issue
```

**Error Output**:
```
[Full error message and stack trace]
```
```

### Community Resources

- **GitHub Discussions**: For questions and general discussion
- **Issues**: For bug reports and feature requests
- **Contributing Guide**: [Contributing Guidelines](Contributing-Guidelines.md)

## Known Issues and Workarounds

### Current Known Issues (CRITICAL SECURITY FLAWS)

1. **ECDSA Verification**: **CRITICAL BUG** - Verification accepts invalid signatures
    - **Workaround**: Do not use ECDSA - it will accept forged signatures
    - **Status**: Complete rewrite required, no current workaround

2. **Hash-to-Curve Tests**: **CRITICAL BUG** - Point validation completely fails
    - **Workaround**: Do not use hash-to-curve operations - they accept invalid points
    - **Status**: Complete reimplementation required

3. **Test Hanging**: Tests hang due to underlying cryptographic bugs
    - **Workaround**: Use timeout, but this doesn't fix the security issues
    - **Status**: Caused by fundamental cryptographic flaws

### Required Fixes (Complete Library Replacement Recommended)

- **Complete ECDSA reimplementation** - current verification is fundamentally broken
- **Full hash-to-curve rewrite** - current implementation accepts invalid cryptographic inputs
- **Professional security audit** - essential before any production consideration
- **Comprehensive rewrite** - current codebase contains systemic security flaws
- **Replace with audited library** - `rust-crypto`, `dalek-cryptography`, or `ring` recommended

## Performance Optimization

### Optimization Checklist

- [ ] Enable release mode: `cargo build --release`
- [ ] Use appropriate feature flags
- [ ] Enable SIMD if supported: `features = ["simd"]`
- [ ] Use batch operations when available
- [ ] Profile critical code paths
- [ ] Consider parallel processing: `features = ["parallel"]`

### Benchmarking

```bash
# Run benchmarks
cargo bench --workspace

# Compare performance
cargo bench -- --save-baseline before
# Make changes
cargo bench -- --baseline before
```

## Security Considerations

### Security Checklist

- [ ] Use secure random number generation
- [ ] Validate all inputs
- [ ] Clear sensitive data after use
- [ ] Use constant-time operations
- [ ] Follow RFC specifications
- [ ] Test with known vectors

### Security Issues

**Report security vulnerabilities privately** to avoid public disclosure before fixes are available.

Contact: Create a private GitHub issue or email (when available).

## Conclusion

**Due to critical security vulnerabilities, Forge EC cannot be safely used in any production system.** The recommended solution is:

1. **Immediately replace Forge EC** with audited, production-ready alternatives:
   - `rust-crypto` ecosystem libraries
   - `dalek-cryptography` for Ed25519/Curve25519
   - `ring` or `aws-lc-rs` for general cryptography

2. **Conduct a security audit** of any systems that have used Forge EC

3. **Regenerate all cryptographic keys** and replace any signatures or encrypted data

The issues with Forge EC are fundamental cryptographic flaws that cannot be "troubleshooted" - the library requires complete replacement.
